QUIZ 3

Name: Hannah Raveh
Grade: 11/11

1: 2/2
2: 3/3
3: 4/4
4: 2/2


Date out: 3 oct
Date due: 7 oct

Read the first two chapters in Allen Downey's book, The
Little Book of Semaphores.

Answer the "Puzzles", which are found on,

1) Page 2.
      Assuming that Bob is willing to follow simple instructions, is 
      there any way you can guarantee that tomorrow you will eat
      lunch before Bob?

      You can tell Bob to only eat his lunch when after you call him. Assuming that Bob will follow your instructions, after you eat lunch, you can call Bob, after which he'll eat lunch. So you've guaranteed that Bob will eat lunch after you

   (This is actually answered for you on the following page.)

2) Page 5 (3 puzzles)
      What path yields output 5 and final value 5.  
            b1 < a1 < a2
      What path yields output 7 and final value 7. 
            a1 < b1 < a2
      Is there a path that yields output 7 and final value 5? Can you prove it? 
            No, for it to output 7, b1 < a2. Given that thread A runs sequentially, to have x's final result be 5, a1, must run adfter b1 and a2, so this is not possible.

   In answering these questions, it would be the sequence of events, or
   that a certain sequence is not possible.

3) Page 6
      Supposse that 100 threads run the following program concurrently.
      ... [the program]
      What is the largest possible value of count after all the threads have completed? 
            10,000 - in this case there is no interleaving between the threads
      What is the smallest possible value? 
            2 - Break the threads down in thread A, thread B, and the remaining the 98 threads. To get 2 as the value the following events would need to occur. A reads count as 0, it's preempted by B which runs 99 iterations of it's loop, after which the remaining 98 threads run to completetion. A then writes 1 to count, but it's then preempted by B, which reads count as 1, but then gets preempted by A, which runs to completetion. Now we just have thread 2 remaining, and it writes 2 to count.

      Give some reason for your answers. It is harder to give reasons
      for what cannot happen.  
 
4) Page 6
      Figure out a system of message passing (phone calls) that enforces
      these restriants. Assume there are no clocks, and you cannot predict
      when lunch will start or how long it will last. What is the minimum
      number of messages that is required?
      2 messages are required. You call when you start your lunch, so that Bob knows that he can't have his lunch. After you finish your lunch, you call again, after which Bob is free to eat his lunch whenever.


